docs/agent/erk/auto-restack.md, before:

---
title: Auto-Restack Command Usage
read_when:
  - "using erk pr auto-restack"
  - "dealing with rebase conflicts in Graphite stacks"
  - "automating conflict resolution"
  - "understanding when to use auto-restack vs manual gt restack"
---

# Auto-Restack Command Usage

The `erk pr auto-restack` command automates Graphite restacking with intelligent conflict resolution. It runs `gt restack` and automatically handles merge conflicts, looping until completion.

## Fast Path vs Slow Path

The command uses two execution paths for efficiency:

**Fast Path** (no Claude required):

- When `gt restack` completes without conflicts
- Command finishes immediately with no AI involvement
- Fastest possible execution

**Slow Path** (Claude for conflict resolution):

- When conflicts are detected during restack
- Falls back to Claude for intelligent conflict classification
- Handles mechanical conflicts automatically
- Prompts for semantic conflicts requiring user input

## When to Use Auto-Restack

**Use auto-restack when:**

- Your Graphite stack is out of date with trunk
- You need to update branch dependencies
- You expect mechanical conflicts (import changes, formatting, etc.)
- You want hands-off conflict resolution

**Use manual `gt restack` when:**

- You need precise control over each conflict
- Conflicts involve complex semantic decisions
- You're debugging restack issues
- You prefer interactive resolution

## Basic Usage

```bash
# Run from any branch in your stack
erk pr auto-restack
```

The command will:

1. Squash commits on your branch
2. Attempt `gt restack --no-interactive`
3. Resolve conflicts automatically when possible
4. Ask for input on semantic conflicts
5. Continue until restack completes

## What Happens During Execution

### Phase 1: Preflight

```
🔄 Starting Graphite restack...
📦 Squashing commits...
🔄 Running gt restack...
```

The preflight:

- Squashes all commits on the current branch into one
- Runs `gt restack --no-interactive`
- Detects any conflicts that arise

**Fast path exit**: If no conflicts are detected, the command completes immediately without invoking Claude. This is the optimal path for clean restacks.

### Phase 2: Conflict Resolution Loop (Slow Path)

When conflicts are detected, the command falls back to Claude for intelligent resolution:

```
⚡ Conflict detected in 2 files:
   - src/utils.py (mechanical - auto-resolving)
   - src/config.py (mechanical - auto-resolving)

✅ Resolved 2 mechanical conflicts
📦 Staging resolved files and continuing...
```

The command classifies each conflict:

**Mechanical conflicts** (auto-resolved):

- Adjacent line changes
- Import reordering
- Formatting differences
- Independent features touching the same file

**Semantic conflicts** (requires user input):

- Different approaches to the same problem
- Architectural disagreements
- Contradictory business logic

For semantic conflicts, you'll be prompted:

```
🤔 Semantic conflict in src/api.py:
   HEAD: Implements retry logic with exponential backoff
   INCOMING: Implements retry logic with fixed delay

   Which approach should be used?
   1. Keep HEAD (exponential backoff)
   2. Keep INCOMING (fixed delay)
   3. Combine both approaches
```

### Phase 3: Finalize

```
✅ Restack complete! Your branch is ready.
```

The finalize verifies:

- No rebase is still in progress
- Working tree is clean

## Example: Fast Path (No Conflicts)

```
$ erk pr auto-restack
  Squashing commits...
  Running gt restack...
Restack complete!
```

This is the fast path - no conflicts were detected, so the command completed without Claude involvement.

## Example: Slow Path (Conflicts Detected)

```
$ erk pr auto-restack
  Squashing commits...
  Running gt restack...
Conflicts detected in 3 file(s). Falling back to Claude...

⚡ Conflict detected in 3 files:
   - packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/git/fake.py
   - packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/graphite/fake.py
   - src/erk/cli/commands/pr/submit_cmd.py

Analyzing conflicts...
   - fake.py (mechanical): Tuple type annotation merge
   - fake.py (mechanical): Constructor parameter updates
   - submit_cmd.py (mechanical): Import reordering

✅ Resolved 3 mechanical conflicts
📦 Staging resolved files and continuing...

✅ Restack completed successfully

✅ Restack complete!
```

## Troubleshooting

### Preflight False Positives

**Issue:** Preflight reports conflicts but you expected none.

**Cause:** Your branch may have diverged more than expected from trunk.

**Solution:**

1. Check `git log --oneline main..HEAD` to see your commits
2. Check `git log --oneline HEAD..main` to see trunk commits
3. Consider rebasing manually if the divergence is significant

### Semantic Conflicts Requiring User Input

**Issue:** Command stops and asks for decisions.

**Cause:** Conflicts involve conflicting intent that can't be auto-resolved.

**Solution:**

1. Read the conflict description carefully
2. Choose the appropriate approach based on your feature's needs
3. The command continues after your choice

### Rebase Already in Progress

**Issue:** Error about existing rebase in progress.

**Cause:** A previous rebase was interrupted.

**Solution:**

```bash
# Option 1: Continue the existing rebase
gt continue

# Option 2: Abort and start fresh
gt rebase --abort
erk pr auto-restack
```

### Pre-commit Hook Failures

**Issue:** Pre-commit hooks fail after conflict resolution.

**Cause:** Resolved code doesn't pass linting/formatting.

**Solution:** The auto-restack command will:

1. Show the pre-commit failure
2. Fix the issues (formatting, imports, etc.)
3. Continue automatically

If issues can't be auto-fixed, you'll need to fix them manually.

## Architecture

The auto-restack command uses a three-phase architecture:

1. **Preflight** - Squash + restack attempt + conflict detection
2. **Continue Loop** - Resolve, stage, continue until complete
3. **Finalize** - Verify clean completion

For implementation details, see [Three-Phase Restack Architecture](../architecture/restack-operations.md).

## Related Documentation

- [Three-Phase Restack Architecture](../architecture/restack-operations.md) - Technical implementation
- [Graphite Branch Setup](graphite-branch-setup.md) - Setting up branches before submission
- Load `gt-graphite` skill for comprehensive Graphite guidance

Commit message:

Add tripwire preventing automatic execution of gt sync and gt repo sync (#2963)
This change adds a critical safety tripwire to prevent agents from automatically running `gt sync` or `gt repo sync` without explicit user authorization. These commands perform irreversible operations including branch deletion, stack relationship modification, and GitHub synchronization.

## Files Changed

### Modified (2 files)
- `docs/agent/erk/auto-restack.md` - Added tripwire metadata for gt sync prevention
- `docs/agent/tripwires.md` - Added critical action tripwire for gt sync/repo sync safety

## Key Changes

- Added tripwire to prevent automatic execution of `gt sync` and `gt repo sync` commands
- Documented safety rationale: these commands can delete branches and modify stack relationships irreversibly
- Linked to Auto-Restack Command Usage documentation for detailed guidance
- Integrated tripwire into documentation system via frontmatter metadata

## Critical Notes

- This tripwire is enforced at the agent behavior level - agents must check this documentation before running Graphite synchronization commands on user's behalf
- The safety rule applies to both `gt sync` and `gt repo sync` as they have identical irreversible side effects
---


Closes #2751


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 2963 && erk pr sync
```

docs/agent/erk/auto-restack.md, after:

---
title: Auto-Restack Command Usage
read_when:
  - "using erk pr auto-restack"
  - "dealing with rebase conflicts in Graphite stacks"
  - "automating conflict resolution"
  - "understanding when to use auto-restack vs manual gt restack"
tripwires:
  - action: "running gt sync or gt repo sync on user's behalf"
    warning: "NEVER run 'gt sync' or 'gt repo sync' automatically. This command synchronizes all Graphite branches with GitHub and can delete branches, modify stack relationships, and make irreversible changes. The user must run this command explicitly."
---

# Auto-Restack Command Usage

The `erk pr auto-restack` command automates Graphite restacking with intelligent conflict resolution. It runs `gt restack` and automatically handles merge conflicts, looping until completion.

## Fast Path vs Slow Path

The command uses two execution paths for efficiency:

**Fast Path** (no Claude required):

- When `gt restack` completes without conflicts
- Command finishes immediately with no AI involvement
- Fastest possible execution

**Slow Path** (Claude for conflict resolution):

- When conflicts are detected during restack
- Falls back to Claude for intelligent conflict classification
- Handles mechanical conflicts automatically
- Prompts for semantic conflicts requiring user input

## When to Use Auto-Restack

**Use auto-restack when:**

- Your Graphite stack is out of date with trunk
- You need to update branch dependencies
- You expect mechanical conflicts (import changes, formatting, etc.)
- You want hands-off conflict resolution

**Use manual `gt restack` when:**

- You need precise control over each conflict
- Conflicts involve complex semantic decisions
- You're debugging restack issues
- You prefer interactive resolution

## Basic Usage

```bash
# Run from any branch in your stack
erk pr auto-restack
```

The command will:

1. Squash commits on your branch
2. Attempt `gt restack --no-interactive`
3. Resolve conflicts automatically when possible
4. Ask for input on semantic conflicts
5. Continue until restack completes

## What Happens During Execution

### Phase 1: Preflight

```
🔄 Starting Graphite restack...
📦 Squashing commits...
🔄 Running gt restack...
```

The preflight:

- Squashes all commits on the current branch into one
- Runs `gt restack --no-interactive`
- Detects any conflicts that arise

**Fast path exit**: If no conflicts are detected, the command completes immediately without invoking Claude. This is the optimal path for clean restacks.

### Phase 2: Conflict Resolution Loop (Slow Path)

When conflicts are detected, the command falls back to Claude for intelligent resolution:

```
⚡ Conflict detected in 2 files:
   - src/utils.py (mechanical - auto-resolving)
   - src/config.py (mechanical - auto-resolving)

✅ Resolved 2 mechanical conflicts
📦 Staging resolved files and continuing...
```

The command classifies each conflict:

**Mechanical conflicts** (auto-resolved):

- Adjacent line changes
- Import reordering
- Formatting differences
- Independent features touching the same file

**Semantic conflicts** (requires user input):

- Different approaches to the same problem
- Architectural disagreements
- Contradictory business logic

For semantic conflicts, you'll be prompted:

```
🤔 Semantic conflict in src/api.py:
   HEAD: Implements retry logic with exponential backoff
   INCOMING: Implements retry logic with fixed delay

   Which approach should be used?
   1. Keep HEAD (exponential backoff)
   2. Keep INCOMING (fixed delay)
   3. Combine both approaches
```

### Phase 3: Finalize

```
✅ Restack complete! Your branch is ready.
```

The finalize verifies:

- No rebase is still in progress
- Working tree is clean

## Example: Fast Path (No Conflicts)

```
$ erk pr auto-restack
  Squashing commits...
  Running gt restack...
Restack complete!
```

This is the fast path - no conflicts were detected, so the command completed without Claude involvement.

## Example: Slow Path (Conflicts Detected)

```
$ erk pr auto-restack
  Squashing commits...
  Running gt restack...
Conflicts detected in 3 file(s). Falling back to Claude...

⚡ Conflict detected in 3 files:
   - packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/git/fake.py
   - packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/graphite/fake.py
   - src/erk/cli/commands/pr/submit_cmd.py

Analyzing conflicts...
   - fake.py (mechanical): Tuple type annotation merge
   - fake.py (mechanical): Constructor parameter updates
   - submit_cmd.py (mechanical): Import reordering

✅ Resolved 3 mechanical conflicts
📦 Staging resolved files and continuing...

✅ Restack completed successfully

✅ Restack complete!
```

## Troubleshooting

### Preflight False Positives

**Issue:** Preflight reports conflicts but you expected none.

**Cause:** Your branch may have diverged more than expected from trunk.

**Solution:**

1. Check `git log --oneline main..HEAD` to see your commits
2. Check `git log --oneline HEAD..main` to see trunk commits
3. Consider rebasing manually if the divergence is significant

### Semantic Conflicts Requiring User Input

**Issue:** Command stops and asks for decisions.

**Cause:** Conflicts involve conflicting intent that can't be auto-resolved.

**Solution:**

1. Read the conflict description carefully
2. Choose the appropriate approach based on your feature's needs
3. The command continues after your choice

### Rebase Already in Progress

**Issue:** Error about existing rebase in progress.

**Cause:** A previous rebase was interrupted.

**Solution:**

```bash
# Option 1: Continue the existing rebase
gt continue

# Option 2: Abort and start fresh
gt rebase --abort
erk pr auto-restack
```

### Pre-commit Hook Failures

**Issue:** Pre-commit hooks fail after conflict resolution.

**Cause:** Resolved code doesn't pass linting/formatting.

**Solution:** The auto-restack command will:

1. Show the pre-commit failure
2. Fix the issues (formatting, imports, etc.)
3. Continue automatically

If issues can't be auto-fixed, you'll need to fix them manually.

## Architecture

The auto-restack command uses a three-phase architecture:

1. **Preflight** - Squash + restack attempt + conflict detection
2. **Continue Loop** - Resolve, stage, continue until complete
3. **Finalize** - Verify clean completion

For implementation details, see [Three-Phase Restack Architecture](../architecture/restack-operations.md).

## Related Documentation

- [Three-Phase Restack Architecture](../architecture/restack-operations.md) - Technical implementation
- [Graphite Branch Setup](graphite-branch-setup.md) - Setting up branches before submission
- Load `gt-graphite` skill for comprehensive Graphite guidance
