docs/learned/planning/step-extraction-format.md, before:

---
title: Step Extraction Format
read_when:
  - "creating plans with extractable steps"
  - "writing test fixtures with impl folders"
  - "debugging empty steps in progress.md"
tripwires:
  - action: "creating test plan content without frontmatter steps"
    warning: "Plans MUST have a `steps:` array in YAML frontmatter with dictionaries containing 'name' keys. The /erk:plan-save command will reject plans without proper frontmatter steps."
---

# Step Extraction Format

Implementation plans must include a `steps:` array in YAML frontmatter for step tracking to work.

## Primary Format: YAML Frontmatter Steps (Required)

Plans saved via `/erk:plan-save` **must** include steps in YAML frontmatter. Each step must be a dictionary with a `name` key:

```markdown
---
steps:
  - name: "Create database schema"
  - name: "Implement API endpoints"
  - name: "Add integration tests"
---

# Implementation Plan

## Overview

This plan implements the user authentication feature.

## Step 1: Create database schema

Details here...
```

The frontmatter `steps:` array is the **authoritative source** for step tracking.

## Why Dictionaries?

Using `- name: "..."` instead of plain strings makes the schema extensible. Future fields can be added without breaking existing plans:

```yaml
steps:
  - name: "Create database schema"
    estimate: "small"
  - name: "Implement API endpoints"
    depends_on: 1
```

## Validation at Save Time

The `plan-save-to-issue` command validates frontmatter before saving:

- **Missing `steps:` key** → Error with instructions to add frontmatter
- **`steps:` not a list** → Error with type mismatch message
- **Empty `steps: []`** → Error requiring at least one step
- **Step not a dict** → Error with format instructions
- **Step missing `name`** → Error with format instructions

This ensures all plans have valid step tracking from the start.

## Fallback: Regex Extraction (Backwards Compatibility)

For plans without frontmatter, regex extraction is used as a fallback:

```
^## Step \d+[:\s]+(.+)$
```

This matches:

- Line starts with `## Step`
- Followed by one or more digits
- Followed by `:` or whitespace
- Captures the title (everything after)

### Regex-Compatible Headers

```markdown
## Step 1: Database Schema

## Step 2: API Endpoints

## Step 3: Integration Tests
```

**Note**: Frontmatter steps take precedence. If both exist, frontmatter is used.

## Creating Test Fixtures

When writing tests, use frontmatter steps for reliability:

```python
# CORRECT: Uses frontmatter steps with name key (preferred)
plan_content = """---
steps:
  - name: "First step"
  - name: "Second step"
---

# Test Plan

Content here...
"""
create_impl_folder(tmp_path, plan_content, prompt_executor=None, overwrite=False)

# Resulting progress.md has 2 steps from frontmatter
```

Or use regex format if testing backwards compatibility:

```python
# CORRECT: Uses ## Step N: format (fallback)
plan_content = """# Test Plan

## Step 1: First step

Do the first step.

## Step 2: Second step

Do the second step.
"""
create_impl_folder(tmp_path, plan_content, prompt_executor=None, overwrite=False)

# Resulting progress.md has 2 steps from regex extraction
```

## Invalid Formats

These formats will NOT be extracted (no frontmatter, no valid headers):

```markdown
# Step 1: Title # Wrong: Uses # instead of

### Step 1: Title # Wrong: Uses ### instead of

1. First step # Wrong: Numbered list format

- First step # Wrong: Bullet list format

## 1. Title # Wrong: Missing "Step" keyword
```

## Implementation Details

Steps are extracted using `extract_steps_from_plan_with_fallback()`:

```python
def extract_steps_from_plan_with_fallback(plan_content: str) -> list[str]:
    """Extract steps from plan frontmatter, with regex fallback."""
    # Frontmatter is authoritative if present
    frontmatter_steps = extract_steps_from_frontmatter(plan_content)
    if frontmatter_steps is not None:
        return frontmatter_steps

    # Fallback to regex for backwards compatibility
    return extract_steps_from_plan_regex(plan_content)
```

## Why Frontmatter?

1. **Reliable**: Agent explicitly lists steps, no parsing ambiguity
2. **Validated**: Errors at save time, not implementation time
3. **Flexible**: Step titles don't need to match header format
4. **Extensible**: Dictionary format allows future metadata fields
5. **Simple**: No regex knowledge required for agents

## Related Documentation

- [Progress Schema Reference](progress-schema.md) - The resulting progress.md structure
- [Plan Schema Reference](plan-schema.md) - GitHub issue plan structure

Commit message:

Add --steps CLI option to plan-save-to-issue command for flexible step injection (#3995)
This change adds a `--steps` CLI option to `plan-save-to-issue` that allows users to inject implementation steps directly via the command line, without requiring frontmatter modification. The option is repeatable, overrides existing frontmatter steps, and gracefully handles YAML parsing errors. Documentation is updated to reflect this new workflow option alongside the existing frontmatter approach.

## Files Changed

### Modified (5 files)
- `.claude/commands/erk/plan-save.md` - Updated agent instructions with Option A (frontmatter) and Option B (CLI --steps)
- `docs/learned/planning/step-extraction-format.md` - Added CLI --steps as alternative to frontmatter steps
- `docs/learned/tripwires.md` - Updated tripwire warning to mention --steps option
- `src/erk/cli/commands/exec/scripts/plan_save_to_issue.py` - Added `inject_steps_into_plan()` function and `--steps` option
- `tests/unit/cli/commands/exec/scripts/test_plan_save_to_issue.py` - Added comprehensive tests for step injection

## Key Changes

- Added `inject_steps_into_plan()` function to inject or replace steps in plan frontmatter
- Added repeatable `--steps` CLI option that overrides existing frontmatter steps
- Graceful YAML error handling when existing frontmatter is invalid
- Updated documentation to present both frontmatter and CLI-based step workflows as equally valid options
- Comprehensive test coverage: 5 new tests for step injection and CLI option behavior
---


Closes #3989


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 3995 && erk pr sync --dangerous
```

docs/learned/planning/step-extraction-format.md, after:

---
title: Step Extraction Format
read_when:
  - "creating plans with extractable steps"
  - "writing test fixtures with impl folders"
  - "debugging empty steps in progress.md"
tripwires:
  - action: "creating test plan content without frontmatter steps"
    warning: "Plans MUST have steps for tracking. Either add a `steps:` array in YAML frontmatter with dictionaries containing 'name' keys, or use the --steps CLI option when saving."
---

# Step Extraction Format

Implementation plans must include a `steps:` array in YAML frontmatter for step tracking to work.

## Primary Format: YAML Frontmatter Steps (Required)

Plans saved via `/erk:plan-save` **must** include steps in YAML frontmatter. Each step must be a dictionary with a `name` key:

```markdown
---
steps:
  - name: "Create database schema"
  - name: "Implement API endpoints"
  - name: "Add integration tests"
---

# Implementation Plan

## Overview

This plan implements the user authentication feature.

## Step 1: Create database schema

Details here...
```

The frontmatter `steps:` array is the **authoritative source** for step tracking.

## Why Dictionaries?

Using `- name: "..."` instead of plain strings makes the schema extensible. Future fields can be added without breaking existing plans:

```yaml
steps:
  - name: "Create database schema"
    estimate: "small"
  - name: "Implement API endpoints"
    depends_on: 1
```

## Validation at Save Time

The `plan-save-to-issue` command validates frontmatter before saving:

- **Missing `steps:` key** → Error with instructions to add frontmatter
- **`steps:` not a list** → Error with type mismatch message
- **Empty `steps: []`** → Error requiring at least one step
- **Step not a dict** → Error with format instructions
- **Step missing `name`** → Error with format instructions

This ensures all plans have valid step tracking from the start.

### Alternative: CLI --steps Option

Instead of adding steps to frontmatter, you can provide steps via the CLI:

```bash
erk exec plan-save-to-issue --steps "First step" --steps "Second step" --format display
```

The `--steps` option injects steps into the plan frontmatter at save time, overriding any existing steps. This is useful when you don't want to modify the plan file.

## Fallback: Regex Extraction (Backwards Compatibility)

For plans without frontmatter, regex extraction is used as a fallback:

```
^## Step \d+[:\s]+(.+)$
```

This matches:

- Line starts with `## Step`
- Followed by one or more digits
- Followed by `:` or whitespace
- Captures the title (everything after)

### Regex-Compatible Headers

```markdown
## Step 1: Database Schema

## Step 2: API Endpoints

## Step 3: Integration Tests
```

**Note**: Frontmatter steps take precedence. If both exist, frontmatter is used.

## Creating Test Fixtures

When writing tests, use frontmatter steps for reliability:

```python
# CORRECT: Uses frontmatter steps with name key (preferred)
plan_content = """---
steps:
  - name: "First step"
  - name: "Second step"
---

# Test Plan

Content here...
"""
create_impl_folder(tmp_path, plan_content, prompt_executor=None, overwrite=False)

# Resulting progress.md has 2 steps from frontmatter
```

Or use regex format if testing backwards compatibility:

```python
# CORRECT: Uses ## Step N: format (fallback)
plan_content = """# Test Plan

## Step 1: First step

Do the first step.

## Step 2: Second step

Do the second step.
"""
create_impl_folder(tmp_path, plan_content, prompt_executor=None, overwrite=False)

# Resulting progress.md has 2 steps from regex extraction
```

## Invalid Formats

These formats will NOT be extracted (no frontmatter, no valid headers):

```markdown
# Step 1: Title # Wrong: Uses # instead of

### Step 1: Title # Wrong: Uses ### instead of

1. First step # Wrong: Numbered list format

- First step # Wrong: Bullet list format

## 1. Title # Wrong: Missing "Step" keyword
```

## Implementation Details

Steps are extracted using `extract_steps_from_plan_with_fallback()`:

```python
def extract_steps_from_plan_with_fallback(plan_content: str) -> list[str]:
    """Extract steps from plan frontmatter, with regex fallback."""
    # Frontmatter is authoritative if present
    frontmatter_steps = extract_steps_from_frontmatter(plan_content)
    if frontmatter_steps is not None:
        return frontmatter_steps

    # Fallback to regex for backwards compatibility
    return extract_steps_from_plan_regex(plan_content)
```

## Why Frontmatter?

1. **Reliable**: Agent explicitly lists steps, no parsing ambiguity
2. **Validated**: Errors at save time, not implementation time
3. **Flexible**: Step titles don't need to match header format
4. **Extensible**: Dictionary format allows future metadata fields
5. **Simple**: No regex knowledge required for agents

## Related Documentation

- [Progress Schema Reference](progress-schema.md) - The resulting progress.md structure
- [Plan Schema Reference](plan-schema.md) - GitHub issue plan structure
