RELEASING.md, before:

# Releasing

How to publish a new erk release.

## Prerequisites

- All PRs for the release merged to master
- CI passing on master
- On the master branch (or ready to create a release branch from it)

## Ongoing: Keep Changelog Current

Run this regularly during development (after merging PRs, completing features):

```bash
/local:changelog-update
```

This syncs the Unreleased section with commits since the last update, adding entries with commit hashes for traceability.

## Release Steps

### 1. Create a Release Branch

```bash
git checkout -b release-X.Y.Z
```

Release work happens on a dedicated branch, not directly on master.

### 2. Finalize Changelog and Version

```bash
/local:changelog-release
```

This command:

- Ensures changelog is current (runs changelog-update if needed)
- Prompts for version number
- Moves Unreleased content to a versioned section
- Strips commit hashes from entries
- Bumps version in pyproject.toml

### 3. Update Required Version File

Update the required erk version to match the new release:

```bash
echo "X.Y.Z" > .erk/required-erk-uv-tool-version
```

This file is used by version checking to warn users when their installed erk doesn't match the repository's required version. Failing to update this will cause CI failures due to version mismatch warnings in shell integration tests.

### 4. Squash, Commit, and Tag

Squash all release prep commits into a single release commit:

```bash
uv sync
git add -A
git tag -d vX.Y.Z 2>/dev/null  # Delete premature tag if exists
git reset --soft master
git commit -m "Release X.Y.Z"
erk-dev release-tag
```

This ensures a clean single commit for the release with the tag pointing to it.

### 5. Run CI Locally

```bash
make all-ci
```

Verify all checks pass locally before pushing. This catches obvious issues early.

### 6. Push Branch for GitHub CI

```bash
git push origin release-X.Y.Z
```

Push the release branch to GitHub to run CI in the full environment. Review the GitHub Actions results to catch any environment-specific issues.

### 7. Confirmation Checkpoint

**STOP and verify before publishing:**

- [ ] Local CI passes (`make all-ci`)
- [ ] GitHub CI passes (check Actions tab)
- [ ] Version number is correct in pyproject.toml
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md has correct version header
- [ ] Git tag exists and points to the release commit

Only proceed to publish after confirming all checks pass. Publishing to PyPI is irreversible.

### 8. Publish to PyPI

```bash
make publish
```

This builds and publishes all packages to PyPI in dependency order.

### 9. Merge to Master

After confirming the publish succeeded:

```bash
git checkout master
git merge release-X.Y.Z
git push origin master --tags
```

Only merge to master after verifying the release works correctly.

## Version Numbering

Follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

- **Patch** (0.2.1 → 0.2.2): Bug fixes only
- **Minor** (0.2.2 → 0.3.0): New features, backwards compatible
- **Major** (0.3.0 → 1.0.0): Breaking changes

## Verification

After release:

```bash
# Check version displays correctly
erk --version

# Check release notes are accessible
erk info release-notes
```

## Tooling Reference

| Command                    | Purpose                                     |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `/local:changelog-update`  | Sync Unreleased section with latest commits |
| `/local:changelog-release` | Finalize release (version, tag, cleanup)    |
| `erk-dev release-info`     | Get current/last version info               |
| `erk-dev release-tag`      | Create git tag for current version          |
| `erk-dev release-update`   | Update CHANGELOG.md programmatically        |
| `erk info release-notes`   | View changelog entries                      |

Commit message:

Release 0.4.1 (#4179)
This release includes three key fixes and two new administrative commands. It updates the required erk version to 0.4.1 across all packages and documentation.

## Files Changed

### Modified (8 files)
- `.erk/required-erk-uv-tool-version` - Version bump
- `CHANGELOG.md` - Release notes for 0.4.1
- `pyproject.toml` - Version update in main package
- `packages/erk-dev/pyproject.toml` - Version update
- `packages/erk-shared/pyproject.toml` - Version update
- `packages/erk-statusline/pyproject.toml` - Version update
- `packages/erk-statusline/src/erk_statusline/__init__.py` - Version constant update
- `uv.lock` - Lock file synchronization

## Key Changes

- Add `erk admin upgrade-repo` command to update repository to installed erk version
- Add `erk doctor` check for post-plan-implement CI hook configuration
- Fix orphaned worktree discovery to use git instead of pool state
- Fix branch creation with `--force` to properly reuse existing slots via checkout
- Fix hook state tracking to record all installed hooks during `erk sync`

RELEASING.md, after:

# Releasing

How to publish a new erk release.

## Prerequisites

- All PRs for the release merged to master
- CI passing on master
- On the master branch (or ready to create a release branch from it)

## Ongoing: Keep Changelog Current

Run this regularly during development (after merging PRs, completing features):

```bash
/local:changelog-update
```

This syncs the Unreleased section with commits since the last update, adding entries with commit hashes for traceability.

## Release Steps

### 1. Create a Release Branch

```bash
git checkout -b release-X.Y.Z
```

Release work happens on a dedicated branch, not directly on master.

### 2. Finalize Changelog and Version

```bash
/local:changelog-release
```

This command:

- Ensures changelog is current (runs changelog-update if needed)
- Prompts for version number
- Moves Unreleased content to a versioned section
- Strips commit hashes from entries
- Bumps version in pyproject.toml

### 3. Update Required Version File

Update the required erk version to match the new release:

```bash
echo "X.Y.Z" > .erk/required-erk-uv-tool-version
```

This file is used by version checking to warn users when their installed erk doesn't match the repository's required version. Failing to update this will cause CI failures due to version mismatch warnings in shell integration tests.

### 4. Squash, Commit, and Tag

Squash all release prep commits into a single release commit:

```bash
uv sync
git add -A
git tag -d vX.Y.Z 2>/dev/null  # Delete premature tag if exists
git reset --soft master
git commit -m "Release X.Y.Z"
erk-dev release-tag
```

This ensures a clean single commit for the release with the tag pointing to it.

### 5. Run CI Locally

```bash
make all-ci
```

Verify all checks pass locally before pushing. This catches obvious issues early.

### 6. Push Branch and Create PR for GitHub CI

```bash
erk pr submit
```

This pushes the release branch and creates a PR for GitHub CI. Review the GitHub Actions results to catch any environment-specific issues.

### 7. Confirmation Checkpoint

**STOP and verify before publishing:**

- [ ] Local CI passes (`make all-ci`)
- [ ] GitHub CI passes (check Actions tab)
- [ ] Version number is correct in pyproject.toml
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md has correct version header
- [ ] Git tag exists and points to the release commit

Only proceed to publish after confirming all checks pass. Publishing to PyPI is irreversible.

### 8. Publish to PyPI

```bash
make publish
```

This builds and publishes all packages to PyPI in dependency order.

### 9. Merge to Master

After confirming the publish succeeded:

```bash
git checkout master
git merge release-X.Y.Z
git push origin master --tags
```

Only merge to master after verifying the release works correctly.

## Version Numbering

Follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

- **Patch** (0.2.1 → 0.2.2): Bug fixes only
- **Minor** (0.2.2 → 0.3.0): New features, backwards compatible
- **Major** (0.3.0 → 1.0.0): Breaking changes

## Verification

After release:

```bash
# Check version displays correctly
erk --version

# Check release notes are accessible
erk info release-notes
```

## Tooling Reference

| Command                    | Purpose                                     |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `/local:changelog-update`  | Sync Unreleased section with latest commits |
| `/local:changelog-release` | Finalize release (version, tag, cleanup)    |
| `erk-dev release-info`     | Get current/last version info               |
| `erk-dev release-tag`      | Create git tag for current version          |
| `erk-dev release-update`   | Update CHANGELOG.md programmatically        |
| `erk info release-notes`   | View changelog entries                      |
