packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/integrations/gt/commit_message_prompt.md, before:

You are a commit message generator. Analyze the provided git diff and return ONLY a commit message.

## Analysis Principles

Analyze the diff following these principles:

- **Be concise and strategic** - focus on significant changes
- **Use component-level descriptions** - reference modules/components, not individual functions
- **Highlight breaking changes prominently**
- **Note test coverage patterns**
- **Use relative paths from repository root**

## Level of Detail

- Focus on architectural and component-level impact
- Keep "Key Changes" to 3-5 major items
- Group related changes together
- Skip minor refactoring, formatting, or trivial updates

## Output Format

```
[Clear one-line PR title describing the change]

[2-3 sentence summary explaining what changed and why. State what the branch does (feature/fix/refactor) and highlight key changes briefly.]

## Files Changed

### Added (N files)
- `path/to/file.py` - Brief purpose (one line)

### Modified (N files)
- `path/to/file.py` - What area changed (component level)

### Deleted (N files)
- `path/to/file.py` - Why removed (strategic reason)

## Key Changes

- [3-5 high-level component/architectural changes]
- Strategic change description focusing on purpose and impact
- Focus on what capabilities changed, not implementation details

## Critical Notes
[Only if there are breaking changes, security concerns, or important warnings - 1-2 bullets max]
```

## Rules

- Output ONLY the commit message (no preamble, no explanation, no commentary)
- NO Claude attribution or footer (NEVER add "Generated with Claude Code" or similar)
- NO metadata headers (NEVER add `**Author:**`, `**Plan:**`, `Closes #N`, or similar)
- Use relative paths from repository root
- Be concise (15-30 lines total)
- First line = PR title, rest = PR body
- Avoid function-level details unless critical
- Maximum 5 key changes
- Only include Critical Notes if necessary

Commit message:

Fix PR title parsing when Claude wraps output in code fences (#2505)
The commit message generator was failing to parse PR titles correctly when Claude wrapped its output in markdown code fences. This branch adds code fence stripping to the output parser, allowing it to handle responses wrapped in backticks with or without language tags.

## Files Changed

### Modified (2 files)
- `packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/integrations/gt/commit_message_prompt.md` - Added clarification to output rules
- `src/erk/core/commit_message_generator.py` - Added code fence stripping logic to output parser

### Added (0 files)

### Deleted (0 files)

## Key Changes

- Strip leading code fence markers (```markdown, ```, etc.) from Claude output before parsing
- Strip trailing code fence markers from output
- Added test coverage for plain code fences and language-tagged code fences
- Updated commit message prompt to clarify output should not be wrapped in fences
---


Closes #2502


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 2505
```

packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/integrations/gt/commit_message_prompt.md, after:

You are a commit message generator. Analyze the provided git diff and return ONLY a commit message.

## Analysis Principles

Analyze the diff following these principles:

- **Be concise and strategic** - focus on significant changes
- **Use component-level descriptions** - reference modules/components, not individual functions
- **Highlight breaking changes prominently**
- **Note test coverage patterns**
- **Use relative paths from repository root**

## Level of Detail

- Focus on architectural and component-level impact
- Keep "Key Changes" to 3-5 major items
- Group related changes together
- Skip minor refactoring, formatting, or trivial updates

## Output Format

```
[Clear one-line PR title describing the change]

[2-3 sentence summary explaining what changed and why. State what the branch does (feature/fix/refactor) and highlight key changes briefly.]

## Files Changed

### Added (N files)
- `path/to/file.py` - Brief purpose (one line)

### Modified (N files)
- `path/to/file.py` - What area changed (component level)

### Deleted (N files)
- `path/to/file.py` - Why removed (strategic reason)

## Key Changes

- [3-5 high-level component/architectural changes]
- Strategic change description focusing on purpose and impact
- Focus on what capabilities changed, not implementation details

## Critical Notes
[Only if there are breaking changes, security concerns, or important warnings - 1-2 bullets max]
```

## Rules

- **IMPORTANT**: Output the commit message directly. Do NOT wrap your response in code fences or markdown blocks.
- Output ONLY the commit message (no preamble, no explanation, no commentary)
- NO Claude attribution or footer (NEVER add "Generated with Claude Code" or similar)
- NO metadata headers (NEVER add `**Author:**`, `**Plan:**`, `Closes #N`, or similar)
- Use relative paths from repository root
- Be concise (15-30 lines total)
- First line = PR title, rest = PR body
- Avoid function-level details unless critical
- Maximum 5 key changes
- Only include Critical Notes if necessary
