docs/user/project-setup.md, before:

# Setting Up Your Project for Erk

This guide covers how to configure your repository to work with erk's planning and implementation workflows.

## Prerequisites

### Install Kits

Install the kits that provide erk's slash commands and agents:

```bash
# Install the erk kit (provides /erk:* commands and agents)
erk kit install erk

# Verify installation
erk kit list
```

The erk kit includes:

- **Commands**: `/erk:plan-implement`, `/erk:save-plan`, `/erk:replan`, etc.
- **Agents**: `issue-wt-creator`, `plan-extractor`
- **Workflows**: GitHub Actions templates for erk queue processing

### Optional: Install Related Kits

For the full erk experience, consider installing these complementary kits:

```bash
# Graphite integration for stacked PRs
erk kit install gt

# Development runner for CI iteration
erk kit install devrun

# Python coding standards (if your project uses Python)
erk kit install dignified-python
```

## Directory Structure

Erk uses specific directories in your repository:

```
your-repo/
├── .erk/
│   ├── post-implement.md    # Custom CI workflow (optional)
│   └── scratch/             # Session-specific temporary files
├── .impl/                   # Created per-worktree for implementation plans
│   ├── plan.md
│   ├── progress.md
│   └── issue.json
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── erk/             # Installed erk GitHub Actions (from kit)
└── ...
```

## .gitignore Configuration

Add these entries to your `.gitignore` to exclude erk's temporary and session-specific files:

```gitignore
# Erk temporary files
.erk/scratch/
.impl/
```

**Why these are ignored:**

- **`.erk/scratch/`**: Session-specific scratch storage. Each Claude session creates temporary files here scoped by session ID. These are ephemeral and should not be committed.
- **`.impl/`**: Implementation plan files created per-worktree. These track in-progress work and are deleted after successful PR submission.

## Post-Implementation CI Configuration

After erk completes a plan implementation, it runs CI validation. You can customize this workflow by creating `.erk/post-implement.md`.

### How It Works

1. When `/erk:plan-implement` finishes implementing a plan, it checks for `.erk/post-implement.md`
2. If found, erk follows the instructions in that file for CI validation
3. If not found, erk skips automated CI and prompts you to run it manually

### Example: Python Project

For a Python project using a Makefile for CI, create `.erk/post-implement.md`:

```markdown
# Post-Implementation CI

Run CI validation after plan implementation using `make ci`.

@.claude/docs/ci-iteration.md
```

The `@` reference includes your CI iteration documentation, keeping the CI process in one place.

If you don't have a shared CI iteration doc, you can inline the instructions:

```markdown
# Post-Implementation CI

Run CI validation after plan implementation.

## CI Command

Use the Task tool with subagent_type `devrun` to run `make ci`:

    Task(
        subagent_type="devrun",
        description="Run make ci",
        prompt="Run make ci from the repository root. Report all failures."
    )

## Iteration Process (max 5 attempts)

1. Run `make ci` via devrun agent
2. If all checks pass: Done
3. If checks fail: Apply targeted fixes (e.g., `make fix`, `make format`)
4. Re-run CI
5. If max attempts reached without success: Exit with error

## Success Criteria

All checks pass: linting, formatting, type checking, tests.
```

## What's Next

More configuration options coming soon:

- Custom worktree naming conventions
- Project-specific planning templates
- Integration with project-specific tooling

Commit message:

Separate repository setup docs into project maintainer and developer onboarding guides (#3038)
This change consolidates setup documentation by splitting it into two distinct guides with clear audience targeting. The original `repository-setup.md` is removed, and the setup instructions are reorganized into `project-setup.md` (for maintainers) and a new `developer-onboarding.md` (for developers joining existing projects). The README is updated to direct users to the appropriate guide based on their role.

## Files Changed

### Added (1 file)
- `docs/user/developer-onboarding.md` - Onboarding guide for developers joining repos with erk already configured

### Modified (2 files)
- `docs/user/README.md` - Updated navigation to direct users based on their role (maintainer vs. developer)
- `docs/user/project-setup.md` - Restructured with step numbers, clarified audience as maintainers, added gitignore configuration and commit instructions

### Deleted (1 file)
- `docs/repository-setup.md` - Consolidated into role-specific guides

## Key Changes

- Split setup documentation by audience: maintainers (`project-setup.md`) vs. developers (`developer-onboarding.md`)
- Added `developer-onboarding.md` with quick-start commands for common erk workflows (worktrees, plans, status checks)
- Restructured `project-setup.md` with numbered steps and added "Commit Your Setup" section
- Updated `docs/user/README.md` with role-based navigation to help users find the right guide
- Clarified that kit artifacts and `erk.toml` should be committed to git for team access
---


Closes #3037


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 3038 && erk pr sync
```

docs/user/project-setup.md, after:

# Setting Up Your Project for Erk

> **Audience**: This guide is for **project maintainers** setting up erk in a repository for the first time. If you're a developer joining a repo that already has erk configured, see [Developer Onboarding](developer-onboarding.md) instead.

This guide covers how to configure your repository to work with erk's planning and implementation workflows.

## Step 1: Initialize Erk

First, initialize erk in your repository:

```bash
erk init
```

This creates the `erk.toml` configuration file in your repository root.

## Step 2: Install Kits

Install the kits that provide erk's slash commands and agents:

```bash
# Install the erk kit (provides /erk:* commands and agents)
erk kit install erk

# Verify installation
erk kit list
```

The erk kit includes:

- **Commands**: `/erk:plan-implement`, `/erk:save-plan`, `/erk:replan`, etc.
- **Agents**: `issue-wt-creator`, `plan-extractor`
- **Workflows**: GitHub Actions templates for erk queue processing

### Step 3: Install Related Kits (Optional)

For the full erk experience, consider installing these complementary kits:

```bash
# Graphite integration for stacked PRs
erk kit install gt

# Development runner for CI iteration
erk kit install devrun

# Python coding standards (if your project uses Python)
erk kit install dignified-python
```

## Directory Structure

Erk uses specific directories in your repository:

```
your-repo/
├── .erk/
│   ├── post-implement.md    # Custom CI workflow (optional)
│   └── scratch/             # Session-specific temporary files
├── .impl/                   # Created per-worktree for implementation plans
│   ├── plan.md
│   ├── progress.md
│   └── issue.json
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── erk/             # Installed erk GitHub Actions (from kit)
└── ...
```

## Step 4: Configure .gitignore

Add these entries to your `.gitignore` to exclude erk's temporary and session-specific files:

```gitignore
# Erk temporary files
.erk/scratch/
.impl/
```

**Why these are ignored:**

- **`.erk/scratch/`**: Session-specific scratch storage. Each Claude session creates temporary files here scoped by session ID. These are ephemeral and should not be committed.
- **`.impl/`**: Implementation plan files created per-worktree. These track in-progress work and are deleted after successful PR submission.

## Step 5: Commit Your Setup

After completing the setup, commit the following files to git:

- **`erk.toml`** - Project configuration (created by `erk init`)
- **`.claude/`** - Kit artifacts (commands, skills, hooks installed by kits)
- **`.gitignore`** - Updated exclusions for erk temporary files

This makes the erk configuration available to all team members who clone the repository.

## Post-Implementation CI Configuration

After erk completes a plan implementation, it runs CI validation. You can customize this workflow by creating `.erk/post-implement.md`.

### How It Works

1. When `/erk:plan-implement` finishes implementing a plan, it checks for `.erk/post-implement.md`
2. If found, erk follows the instructions in that file for CI validation
3. If not found, erk skips automated CI and prompts you to run it manually

### Example: Python Project

For a Python project using a Makefile for CI, create `.erk/post-implement.md`:

```markdown
# Post-Implementation CI

Run CI validation after plan implementation using `make ci`.

@.claude/docs/ci-iteration.md
```

The `@` reference includes your CI iteration documentation, keeping the CI process in one place.

If you don't have a shared CI iteration doc, you can inline the instructions:

```markdown
# Post-Implementation CI

Run CI validation after plan implementation.

## CI Command

Use the Task tool with subagent_type `devrun` to run `make ci`:

    Task(
        subagent_type="devrun",
        description="Run make ci",
        prompt="Run make ci from the repository root. Report all failures."
    )

## Iteration Process (max 5 attempts)

1. Run `make ci` via devrun agent
2. If all checks pass: Done
3. If checks fail: Apply targeted fixes (e.g., `make fix`, `make format`)
4. Re-run CI
5. If max attempts reached without success: Exit with error

## Success Criteria

All checks pass: linting, formatting, type checking, tests.
```

## What's Next

More configuration options coming soon:

- Custom worktree naming conventions
- Project-specific planning templates
- Integration with project-specific tooling
