docs/agent/cli/index.md, before:

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY -->
<!-- Edit source frontmatter, then run 'erk docs sync' to regenerate. -->

# Cli Documentation

- **[command-group-structure.md](command-group-structure.md)** — creating a new command group, adding commands to an existing group, understanding command file organization
- **[command-organization.md](command-organization.md)** — organizing CLI commands, understanding command structure, designing command hierarchies
- **[json-schema.md](json-schema.md)** — adding --json flag to CLI commands, parsing JSON output from erk commands, implementing kit CLI commands with JSON output
- **[list-formatting.md](list-formatting.md)** — formatting list output, designing list commands, ensuring consistent list display
- **[output-styling.md](output-styling.md)** — styling CLI output, using colors in CLI, formatting terminal output
- **[script-mode.md](script-mode.md)** — implementing script mode, suppressing diagnostic output, integrating with shell handlers, debugging shell integration, global flag handling in shell integration, shell integration handler not recognizing commands
- **[shell-aliases.md](shell-aliases.md)** — setting up shell aliases for erk commands, debugging shell integration issues, understanding why a command leaves shell stranded
- **[template-variables.md](template-variables.md)** — configuring .env templates, using substitution variables in config.toml, writing project.toml configuration

Commit message:

Add fast-path pattern documentation and raw session processing guide (#2821)
This branch adds documentation for two key workflows: fast-path optimization patterns for CLI commands and raw session issue processing for documentation extraction. The fast-path documentation explains when and how to skip expensive operations like Claude invocation when preflight conditions are met, with `erk pr auto-restack` as a concrete example. The raw session processing guide documents the workflow for extracting documentation from landed PR sessions via the `erk-raw-session` label. Additionally, the agent-docs skill is updated with a category quick reference table to help writers choose the correct documentation category and clarify the distinction between CLI and architecture patterns.

## Files Changed

### Added (2 files)
- `docs/agent/cli/fast-path-pattern.md` - Fast-path optimization patterns for CLI commands
- `docs/agent/sessions/raw-session-processing.md` - Raw session issue processing workflow

### Modified (3 files)
- `.claude/skills/agent-docs/SKILL.md` - Added category quick reference table and cli/ vs architecture/ distinction guide
- `docs/agent/cli/index.md` - Added reference to fast-path-pattern.md
- `docs/agent/sessions/index.md` - Added reference to raw-session-processing.md

## Key Changes

- Document fast-path pattern for CLI commands: preflight checks, condition evaluation, graceful fallback to slow path
- Document raw session issue processing: structure, extraction workflow (automated vs manual), and two-category analysis framework
- Add category quick reference table to agent-docs skill with clear use cases for each documentation category
- Clarify distinction between `cli/` (CLI command patterns) and `architecture/` (internal implementation patterns) documentation
---


Closes #2817


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 2821 && erk pr sync
```

docs/agent/cli/index.md, after:

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY -->
<!-- Edit source frontmatter, then run 'erk docs sync' to regenerate. -->

# Cli Documentation

- **[command-group-structure.md](command-group-structure.md)** — creating a new command group, adding commands to an existing group, understanding command file organization
- **[command-organization.md](command-organization.md)** — organizing CLI commands, understanding command structure, designing command hierarchies
- **[fast-path-pattern.md](fast-path-pattern.md)** — implementing CLI commands that can skip expensive operations, adding fast path optimization to existing commands, understanding when to invoke Claude vs complete locally
- **[json-schema.md](json-schema.md)** — adding --json flag to CLI commands, parsing JSON output from erk commands, implementing kit CLI commands with JSON output
- **[list-formatting.md](list-formatting.md)** — formatting list output, designing list commands, ensuring consistent list display
- **[output-styling.md](output-styling.md)** — styling CLI output, using colors in CLI, formatting terminal output
- **[script-mode.md](script-mode.md)** — implementing script mode, suppressing diagnostic output, integrating with shell handlers, debugging shell integration, global flag handling in shell integration, shell integration handler not recognizing commands
- **[shell-aliases.md](shell-aliases.md)** — setting up shell aliases for erk commands, debugging shell integration issues, understanding why a command leaves shell stranded
- **[template-variables.md](template-variables.md)** — configuring .env templates, using substitution variables in config.toml, writing project.toml configuration
