docs/learned/architecture/learn-origin-tracking.md, before:

---
title: Learn Origin Tracking
read_when:
  - "understanding how learn PRs are identified"
  - "modifying erk pr land behavior"
  - "working with erk-skip-learn label"
---

# Learn Origin Tracking

PRs that originate from learn plans need to be identified during `erk pr land` to prevent infinite extraction loops.

## The Problem

When a PR is landed via `erk pr land`, the command normally queues the worktree for "pending learn" - a state that enables later session analysis to extract documentation improvements.

However, PRs that _originate from_ learn plans should not trigger another extraction cycle. Otherwise:

1. Learn plan creates documentation PR
2. PR lands → queued for learn
3. Extraction runs → finds documentation changes → creates new learn plan
4. Repeat forever

## Design Decision: Labels over Body Markers

**Previous approach** (deprecated): A marker string (`**Extraction Origin:** true`) was embedded in PR bodies.

**Current approach**: The `erk-skip-learn` GitHub label is added to PRs.

### Rationale

1. **Visibility**: Labels are visible in GitHub UI, making it easy to identify learn PRs at a glance
2. **Simplicity**: Label checks are simpler than parsing PR body content
3. **Separation**: PR body content remains focused on the actual PR description
4. **Flexibility**: Labels can be manually added/removed for edge cases

## Implementation Flow

### 1. PR Creation (`submit.py`, `finalize.py`)

When creating a PR from a learn plan:

```python
# Check if source is learn plan
if is_learn_plan(plan_metadata) or is_issue_learn_plan(issue_metadata):
    # Add label to mark as learn-originated
    github.add_label_to_pr(repo_root, pr_number, ERK_SKIP_LEARN_LABEL)
```

The label is applied by:

- `erk plan submit` - Checks issue's `plan_type` field in plan-header metadata
- `gt finalize` - Checks `.impl/plan.md` for `plan_type: learn`

### 2. PR Landing (`land_cmd.py`)

When landing a PR:

```python
# Check if PR should skip extraction
if github.has_pr_label(repo_root, pr_number, ERK_SKIP_LEARN_LABEL):
    # Skip pending-learn marker
    # Delete worktree immediately
    click.echo("Skipping extraction (learn-originated PR)")
else:
    # Normal flow: mark for pending learn
    mark_pending_learn(worktree)
```

## Adding the GitHub Methods

When this feature was implemented, it required adding new methods to the GitHub integration layer. This follows the standard four-layer pattern:

### ABC (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/abc.py`)

```python
@abstractmethod
def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    """Add a label to a pull request.

    Args:
        repo_root: Path to repository root
        pr_number: Pull request number
        label: Label name to add
    """
    ...

@abstractmethod
def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    """Check if a pull request has a specific label.

    Args:
        repo_root: Path to repository root
        pr_number: Pull request number
        label: Label name to check

    Returns:
        True if the PR has the label, False otherwise
    """
    ...
```

### Real (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/real.py`)

```python
def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    execute_gh_command(
        ["gh", "pr", "edit", str(pr_number), "--add-label", label],
        cwd=repo_root,
    )

def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    result = execute_gh_command(
        ["gh", "pr", "view", str(pr_number), "--json", "labels", "-q", ".labels[].name"],
        cwd=repo_root,
    )
    labels = result.stdout.strip().split("\n") if result.stdout.strip() else []
    return label in labels
```

### Fake (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/fake.py`)

```python
def __init__(
    self,
    *,
    pr_labels: dict[int, set[str]] | None = None,  # PR number -> label set
    # ... other parameters
) -> None:
    self._pr_labels = pr_labels or {}
    self._added_labels: list[tuple[int, str]] = []

@property
def added_labels(self) -> list[tuple[int, str]]:
    """Labels added via add_label_to_pr (for test assertions)."""
    return list(self._added_labels)

def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    self._added_labels.append((pr_number, label))
    if pr_number not in self._pr_labels:
        self._pr_labels[pr_number] = set()
    self._pr_labels[pr_number].add(label)

def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    return label in self._pr_labels.get(pr_number, set())
```

### DryRun (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/dry_run.py`)

```python
def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    # Write operation - no-op in dry run
    pass

def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    # Read operation - delegate to wrapped implementation
    return self._wrapped.has_pr_label(repo_root, pr_number, label)
```

## Testing

Test the extraction skip behavior with FakeGitHub:

```python
def test_land_skips_learn_for_labeled_pr() -> None:
    """PRs with erk-skip-learn label skip pending-learn."""
    fake_github = FakeGitHub(
        pr_labels={123: {"erk-skip-learn"}},
    )
    ctx = create_test_context(github=fake_github)

    result = land_pr(ctx, pr_number=123)

    # Verify extraction was skipped
    assert result.extraction_skipped is True
    assert result.worktree_deleted is True


def test_land_marks_learn_for_normal_pr() -> None:
    """Normal PRs are marked for pending learn."""
    fake_github = FakeGitHub(
        pr_labels={123: set()},  # No skip label
    )
    ctx = create_test_context(github=fake_github)

    result = land_pr(ctx, pr_number=123)

    # Verify normal extraction flow
    assert result.extraction_skipped is False
    assert result.pending_learn is True
```

## Related Documentation

- [Glossary: erk-skip-learn](../glossary.md#erk-skip-learn)
- [Glossary: Learn Plan](../glossary.md#learn-plan)
- [Erk Architecture Patterns](erk-architecture.md) - Four-layer integration pattern
- [Plan Lifecycle](../planning/lifecycle.md) - Full plan workflow

Commit message:

Document prompt-learn-on-land configuration and refactor learn command steps (#4818)
This commit refactors the `erk learn` command documentation to clarify the distinction between learning gaps (information gaps discovered during implementation) and teaching gaps (documentation needed for newly built capabilities). It also documents the new `prompt_learn_on_land` config setting that allows users to globally disable learn prompts on `erk land`.

## Files Changed

### Modified (3 files)
- `.claude/commands/erk/learn.md` - Restructured Steps 6-9 to separate learning gaps from teaching gaps with mandatory checklist
- `docs/learned/architecture/learn-origin-tracking.md` - Added section documenting global config disable option
- `docs/learned/glossary.md` - Added `prompt_learn_on_land` config entry

## Key Changes

- Split documentation gap identification into two distinct steps: Step 6 identifies learning gaps (execution difficulties), Step 7 identifies teaching gaps (new capabilities)
- Made teaching gaps analysis mandatory with a 5-question checklist (CLI commands, config settings, APIs, capabilities, patterns)
- Added explicit requirement to answer all five teaching gap questions before concluding "no gaps found"
- Documented `prompt_learn_on_land` config setting as global alternative to per-PR `erk-skip-learn` label
- Clarified that teaching gaps require action even for smooth implementations, unlike learning gaps
---


Closes #4816


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 4818 && erk pr sync --dangerous
```

docs/learned/architecture/learn-origin-tracking.md, after:

---
title: Learn Origin Tracking
read_when:
  - "understanding how learn PRs are identified"
  - "modifying erk pr land behavior"
  - "working with erk-skip-learn label"
---

# Learn Origin Tracking

PRs that originate from learn plans need to be identified during `erk pr land` to prevent infinite extraction loops.

## The Problem

When a PR is landed via `erk pr land`, the command normally queues the worktree for "pending learn" - a state that enables later session analysis to extract documentation improvements.

However, PRs that _originate from_ learn plans should not trigger another extraction cycle. Otherwise:

1. Learn plan creates documentation PR
2. PR lands → queued for learn
3. Extraction runs → finds documentation changes → creates new learn plan
4. Repeat forever

## Disabling Learn Prompts Globally

For users who prefer to skip the learn prompt entirely (not just for specific PRs), the `prompt_learn_on_land` config setting can be set to `false`:

```bash
erk config set prompt_learn_on_land false
```

This differs from the `erk-skip-learn` label:

- **Label**: Per-PR skip (automatic for learn-originated PRs)
- **Config**: Global disable of the prompt for all PRs

## Design Decision: Labels over Body Markers

**Previous approach** (deprecated): A marker string (`**Extraction Origin:** true`) was embedded in PR bodies.

**Current approach**: The `erk-skip-learn` GitHub label is added to PRs.

### Rationale

1. **Visibility**: Labels are visible in GitHub UI, making it easy to identify learn PRs at a glance
2. **Simplicity**: Label checks are simpler than parsing PR body content
3. **Separation**: PR body content remains focused on the actual PR description
4. **Flexibility**: Labels can be manually added/removed for edge cases

## Implementation Flow

### 1. PR Creation (`submit.py`, `finalize.py`)

When creating a PR from a learn plan:

```python
# Check if source is learn plan
if is_learn_plan(plan_metadata) or is_issue_learn_plan(issue_metadata):
    # Add label to mark as learn-originated
    github.add_label_to_pr(repo_root, pr_number, ERK_SKIP_LEARN_LABEL)
```

The label is applied by:

- `erk plan submit` - Checks issue's `plan_type` field in plan-header metadata
- `gt finalize` - Checks `.impl/plan.md` for `plan_type: learn`

### 2. PR Landing (`land_cmd.py`)

When landing a PR:

```python
# Check if PR should skip extraction
if github.has_pr_label(repo_root, pr_number, ERK_SKIP_LEARN_LABEL):
    # Skip pending-learn marker
    # Delete worktree immediately
    click.echo("Skipping extraction (learn-originated PR)")
else:
    # Normal flow: mark for pending learn
    mark_pending_learn(worktree)
```

## Adding the GitHub Methods

When this feature was implemented, it required adding new methods to the GitHub integration layer. This follows the standard four-layer pattern:

### ABC (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/abc.py`)

```python
@abstractmethod
def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    """Add a label to a pull request.

    Args:
        repo_root: Path to repository root
        pr_number: Pull request number
        label: Label name to add
    """
    ...

@abstractmethod
def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    """Check if a pull request has a specific label.

    Args:
        repo_root: Path to repository root
        pr_number: Pull request number
        label: Label name to check

    Returns:
        True if the PR has the label, False otherwise
    """
    ...
```

### Real (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/real.py`)

```python
def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    execute_gh_command(
        ["gh", "pr", "edit", str(pr_number), "--add-label", label],
        cwd=repo_root,
    )

def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    result = execute_gh_command(
        ["gh", "pr", "view", str(pr_number), "--json", "labels", "-q", ".labels[].name"],
        cwd=repo_root,
    )
    labels = result.stdout.strip().split("\n") if result.stdout.strip() else []
    return label in labels
```

### Fake (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/fake.py`)

```python
def __init__(
    self,
    *,
    pr_labels: dict[int, set[str]] | None = None,  # PR number -> label set
    # ... other parameters
) -> None:
    self._pr_labels = pr_labels or {}
    self._added_labels: list[tuple[int, str]] = []

@property
def added_labels(self) -> list[tuple[int, str]]:
    """Labels added via add_label_to_pr (for test assertions)."""
    return list(self._added_labels)

def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    self._added_labels.append((pr_number, label))
    if pr_number not in self._pr_labels:
        self._pr_labels[pr_number] = set()
    self._pr_labels[pr_number].add(label)

def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    return label in self._pr_labels.get(pr_number, set())
```

### DryRun (`packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/github/dry_run.py`)

```python
def add_label_to_pr(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> None:
    # Write operation - no-op in dry run
    pass

def has_pr_label(self, repo_root: Path, pr_number: int, label: str) -> bool:
    # Read operation - delegate to wrapped implementation
    return self._wrapped.has_pr_label(repo_root, pr_number, label)
```

## Testing

Test the extraction skip behavior with FakeGitHub:

```python
def test_land_skips_learn_for_labeled_pr() -> None:
    """PRs with erk-skip-learn label skip pending-learn."""
    fake_github = FakeGitHub(
        pr_labels={123: {"erk-skip-learn"}},
    )
    ctx = create_test_context(github=fake_github)

    result = land_pr(ctx, pr_number=123)

    # Verify extraction was skipped
    assert result.extraction_skipped is True
    assert result.worktree_deleted is True


def test_land_marks_learn_for_normal_pr() -> None:
    """Normal PRs are marked for pending learn."""
    fake_github = FakeGitHub(
        pr_labels={123: set()},  # No skip label
    )
    ctx = create_test_context(github=fake_github)

    result = land_pr(ctx, pr_number=123)

    # Verify normal extraction flow
    assert result.extraction_skipped is False
    assert result.pending_learn is True
```

## Related Documentation

- [Glossary: erk-skip-learn](../glossary.md#erk-skip-learn)
- [Glossary: Learn Plan](../glossary.md#learn-plan)
- [Erk Architecture Patterns](erk-architecture.md) - Four-layer integration pattern
- [Plan Lifecycle](../planning/lifecycle.md) - Full plan workflow
